Adding search analyzer mapping parameters docs (#9576)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _field-types/mapping-parameters/search-analyzer.md

---
layout: default

> title: Search analyzer

Reviewer: There is already one documentation around this https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/analyzers/search-analyzers/

Author: @mgodwan yes, there is already one, but we want to add this one here too, I did add a link to the existing one now too, thanks for pointing this out

Author: @mgodwan I'm combined the 2 pages into one and left one example in the new page, adding a link to the existing page

parent: Mapping parameters
grand_parent: Mapping and field types
nav_order: 160
has_children: false
has_toc: false
---

# Search analyzer

The `search_analyzer` mapping parameter specifies the analyzer to be used at search time for a text field. This allows the analyzer used for indexing to differ from the one used for searching, offering greater control over how search terms are interpreted and matched.

> By default, the same analyzer is used for both indexing and searching. However, using a custom `search_analyzer` can be helpful when you want to apply looser or stricter matching rules during search, such as using [`stemming`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/analyzers/stemming/) or removing stopwords only at search time.

Reviewer: We should highlight the performance impact for this during search as it will additional computation to search queries

Author: Thats added now

---
layout: default
title: Search analyzer
parent: Mapping parameters
grand_parent: Mapping and field types
nav_order: 160
has_children: false
has_toc: false
---

# Search analyzer

The `search_analyzer` mapping parameter specifies the analyzer to be used at search time for a [`text`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/field-types/supported-field-types/text/) field. This allows the analyzer used for indexing to differ from the one used for searching, offering greater control over how search terms are interpreted and matched.

> By default, the same analyzer is used for both indexing and searching. However, using a custom `search_analyzer` can be helpful when you want to apply looser or stricter matching rules during search, such as using [`stemming`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/analyzers/stemming/) or removing stopwords only at search time. For further details and use cases, see [Search analyzers]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/analyzers/search-analyzers/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, the same analyzer is used for both indexing and searching. However, using a custom `search_analyzer` can be helpful when you want to apply looser or stricter matching rules during search, such as using [`stemming`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/analyzers/stemming/) or removing stopwords only at search time. For more information and use cases, see [Search analyzers]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/analyzers/search-analyzers/).
```

{: .note}

> ## Quick example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Example
```

> The following example creates a field that uses an `edge_ngram_analyzer` with [`Edge n-gram tokenizer`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/analyzers/tokenizers/edge-n-gram/) for indexing and a [standard analyzer]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/analyzers/supported-analyzers/standard/) for searching:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example creates a field that uses an `edge_ngram_analyzer` configured with an [`edge_ngram_tokenizer`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/analyzers/tokenizers/edge-n-gram/) for indexing and a [`standard` analyzer]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/analyzers/supported-analyzers/standard/) for searching:
```

```json
PUT /articles
{
  "settings": {
    "analysis": {
      "analyzer": {
        "edge_ngram_analyzer": {
          "tokenizer": "edge_ngram_tokenizer",
          "filter": ["lowercase"]
        }
      },
      "tokenizer": {
        "edge_ngram_tokenizer": {
          "type": "edge_ngram",
          "min_gram": 2,
          "max_gram": 10,
          "token_chars": ["letter", "digit"]
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "title": {
        "type": "text",
        "analyzer": "edge_ngram_analyzer",
        "search_analyzer": "standard"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> For a full explanation of how search analyzers work and more examples, see [Search analyzers]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/analyzers/search-analyzers/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For a full explanation of how search analyzers work as well as more examples, see [Search analyzers]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/analyzers/search-analyzers/).
```
